Title: Why i do not like Python
Date: 2017-08-19
Modified: 2017-08-19
Tags: python, opinion
Authors: Lucas Bourneuf
Summary: Some details in the language i found weird or outrageous
Slug: why-i-do-not-like-python
lang: english
translation: false
status: draft

# In the standard library
## csv
This module is a huge success to me: simple, efficient, rich.

With the notable exception of a very annoying behavior: record separator is hardcoded.

In other words, if you want your lines (*record* is the formal name) to be separated by a specific characer,
for instance the standard [*record separator*](), you just can't.
You are stuck with `\n`/`\r`.

Or you have to use a tierce-party library. So much for the *battery-included*.

At least, [the documentation](https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/csv.html#csv.Dialect.lineterminator) is clear about it, althouth somewhat outrageous:

> The reader is hard-coded to recognise either '\r' or '\n' as end-of-line, and ignores lineterminator. This behavior may change in the future.

Well, instead of writing this, i guess i could work on it.


## itertools
### islice

    >>> islice([1, 2, 3], start=1, stop=3)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
    TypeError: islice() does not take keyword arguments

Seriously ? In python **3.6** ?

This is because islice is coded by CPython in C, directly, without consideration for the Python side. Like `str.split` few versions ago.

And you know what ? As far as i understand the problem, [PEP 362](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0362/) should have fixed the problem.

But we get an error with `islice`. And it leads to some undesirable
[side-effects](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45776872/itertools-islice-raise-a-valueerror-when-used-with-functools-partial).
